[Concept]: Add bools (#344)
exercism/crystal: concepts-wip/bools/about.md

# Bools

Crystal has a type known as [`Bool`][bools], it is used to represent the values `true` and `false`.

> You can use logical operators (`!`, `||`, `&&`) which can be used to combine Bools and create more complex expressions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You're just about to introduce these. I don't think the repetition is needed. I suggest deleting.
(same in introduction)

# => true

true && false
# => false
```

### Or(`||`)

The [_or_ operator][or] in Crystal is represented by `||` and returns `true` if **at least one** of values given is `true` if both of the values are `false` then it returns `false`.
When using the _or_ operator one bool should be placed on the right side of the `||` and another one on the left side.

```crystal
true || true
# => true

true || false
# => true

false || false
# => false
```

### Not(`!`)

The _not_ operator in Crystal is represented by `!` and returns `true` if the given Bool is `false` and returns `false` if `true` is given.
When using the _not_ operator one Bool should be placed after the operator (`!`).

```crystal
!true
# => false

!false
# => true
```

## Using parentheses(`()`)

When working with booleans you can use parentheses to decide which Bools to evaluate first.
The result can differ depending on how the parentheses are used.
In Crystal, what is in parentheses is evaluated first.

```crystal
true && false && false || true
# => true

true && false && (false || true)
# => false
```

In a situation where there is only one _and_ operation, all Bools have to be `true` to make the result be `true`.

> If one of the arguments to _and_ is `false` the result will also be `false`.

Reviewer: You already said this in the `&&` section.

Since what is in parentheses is evaluated first, in the following example, the _not_ operator will apply to the expression inside parentheses.

```crystal
!true && false
# => false

!(true && false)
# => true
```

```exercism/caution
You should only use parentheses when they affect the result, otherwise, should they be omitted.

> ```

Reviewer: This is a style note, not a caution; use `exercism/note`

https://exercism.org/docs/building/markdown/markdown

## Truthy and falsey

In Crystal, the "falsey" values are: `false`, `nil` and null pointers; **everything else** is "truthy".
These values can be used with the logical operators, mentioned above.

```crystal

true && nil
# => false

> true && 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
false || 4
```

# Bools

Crystal has a type know as [`Bool`][bools], it is used to represent the values `true` and `false`.
You can use logical operators (`!`, `||`, `&&`) which can be used to combine Bools and create more complex expressions:

## Logical operators

> Crystal has 3 logical operators which is used to combine Bools and make expressions that produce different values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Crystal has 3 logical operators which are used to combine Bools and make expressions that produce different values.
```

When using the _and_ operator, one Bool be placed on the right side of the `&&` and another one on the left side.

```crystal
true && true
# => true

true && false
# => false

false && false
# => false
```

### Or(`||`)

The [_or_ operator][or] in crystal is represented by `||` and returns `true` if **at least one** of values given is `true` if both of the values are `false` then it returns `false`.
When using the _or_ operator one bool should be placed on the right side of the `||` and another one on the left side.

```crystal
true || true
# => true

true || false
# => true

false || true
# => true

false || false
# => false
```

### Not(`!`)

The _not_ operator in crystal is represented by `!` and returns `true` if the given Bool is `false` and return `false` if `true` is given.
When using the _not_ operator one Bool should be placed after the operator (`!`).

```crystal
!true
# => false

!false
# => true
```

## Using parentheses(`()`)

When working with booleans you can use parentheses to decided which Bools to evaluate first.
The result can differ depending on how the parentheses are used.

> In crystal, what is in parentheses is evaluated first.
> After parentheses has been evaluated so are booleans evaluated from left to right.

Reviewer 3: I have noticed that you tend to do a lot of small grammar mistakes. Have you considered using some sort of automated grammar checker to help you out?

I sometimes use Grammarly. It's not perfect, and it doesn't understand how programmers talk about programming... but it's better than nothing. Here's an example of how Grammarly could help you improve those two sentences:

<img width="1309" alt="Screenshot 2023-02-25 at 13 15 28" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7852553/221356574-5cde45d8-5f66-49cb-9745-c9c8908bccaf.png">

It doesn't find all the problems, but it's a good start. Here's how I would fix the grammar even further (but I'm not a linguist or a native speaker either)

```suggestion
In Crystal, what is in parentheses is evaluated first.
After parentheses have been evaluated, the booleans are evaluated from left to right.
```

Author: I used Grammarly for my earlier concepts and for writing this message XD. I have a spell checker connected to my ide. But I will use Grammarly from now on(So let me write another commit with those changes), but if you see any grammar mistakes(After the commit), please let me know.

> In crystal, what is in parentheses is evaluated first.
> After parentheses has been evaluated so are booleans evaluated from left to right.
> In the example below the _and_ operation be evaluated first, which will evaluate to: `false && false || true`.
> Then the second _and_ operation will be evaluated, which makes it look like: `false || true`, which in turn results in `true`.
> In the second example, it will first evaluate what is in the parenthesis. After this evaluation, the expression look like: `true && false && true`.
> In a situation where there is only one _and_ operation, all Bools have to be `true` to make the result be `true`.
> If one of the arguments to _and_ is `false` the result will also be `false`.
> 
> ```crystal
> true && false && false || true
> # => true
> 
> true && false && (false || true)
> # => false
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In crystal, what is in parentheses is evaluated first.
After parentheses has been evaluated so are booleans evaluated from left to right.

In the example below the _and_ operation be evaluated first, which will evaluate to: `false && false || true`.
Then the second _and_ operation will be evaluated, which makes it look like: `false || true`, which in turn results in `true`.

``crystal
true && false && false || true
# => true
``

In the next example, it will first evaluate what is in the parenthesis. After this evaluation, the expression look like: `true && false && true`.

``crystal
true && false && (false || true)
# => false
``

In a situation where there is only one _and_ operation, all Bools have to be `true` to make the result be `true`.
If one of the arguments to _and_ is `false` the result will also be `false`.
```

I think it might make sense to interleave the examples and the discussion. I deliberately broke the code fences for the examples because they don't play nicely with the suggestion syntax, but hopefully you get the intent.

```

## Logical operators

Crystal has 3 logical operators which is used to combine bools and change their values.

### And(`&&`)

The [_and_ operator][and] in crystal is represented by `&&` and returns `true` if both values given is `true` otherwise it returns `false`.
When using the _and_ operator so should one bool be placed one the right side of the `&&` and one on the left side.

```crystal
true && true
# => true

true && false
# => false

false && false
# => false
```

### Or(`||`)

The [_or_ operator][or] in crystal is represented by `||` and returns `true` if **at least one** of values given is `true` if both of the values are `false` then it returns `false`.
When using the _or_ operator so should one bool be placed one the right side of the `||` and one on the left side.

```crystal
true || true
# => true

true || false
# => true

false || true
# => true

false || false
# => false
```

### Not(`!`)

The _not_ operator in crystal is represented by `!` and returns `true` if the given bool is `false` and return `false` if `true` is given.
When using the _not_ operator so should the bool be placed after the operator (`!`).

```crystal
!true
# => false

!false
# => true
```

> ## Using brackets(`()`)

Reviewer 3: You might want to use the word "parentheses" everywhere (singular: parenthesis, plural: parentheses). Technically parentheses are a type of brackets, but parentheses is a more specific term that most people use to describe those characters `()`

When working with booleans you can use brackets to decided which bools to evaluate first.

> Dependent on how the brackets are used so can the result end up to be different.

Reviewer 3: Simpler grammatical structure to say the same thing:
```suggestion
The result can differ depending on how the brackets are used.
```

In crystal so is what is in brackets evaluated first.

> After brackets has been evaluated so are booleans evaluated from left to right.

Author: I try to say that what is in the parentheses is evaluated first, then crystal takes the first (from the left) logical operator and evaluates it.

Does that make sense, is there any way I could improve the explanation there?

In the example below so will first _and_ operation be evaluated which will evaluate to: `false && false || true`.
Then the second _and_ operation which makes it look like: `false || true`, which results in `true`.
In the second example it will first evaluate what is in the brackets, after the evaluation it will look like: `true && false && true`.
In a situation where there is only _and_ operation so does all bools has to be true to make the result be true, since one is false so will the result be false.

```crystal
true && false && false || true
# => true

true && false && (false || true)
# => false
```

Since what is in the bracket is evaluated first so will it affect when using the _not_ operator.

```crystal
!true && false
# => false

!(true && false)
# => true
```

```exercism/caution
You should only use brackets when they affect the result, otherwise should they be omitted.

> ```

Author: I have a bit of mixed feelings about this, I have seen on exercism quite mixed use of both ways of writing. And the markdown spec says you can use backticks.

I think following the official way is great, although the use as I said is quite mixed across the track.
And some stuff I write for crystal is being very lightly reviewed (for example the docs for the generator, some stuff is being more highly reviewed and thereby would not apply to those) then it makes sense to have a formatter that can catch for example double spaces. The formatter I use does not like tildas to be used that way. And removes them.

I will have to think over this, I think tildas could be a good way of doing it, since it makes the "blocs" different from code examples in the markdown file. But I want my formatter so yeah, let me think about it.

> ```

Reviewer 4: If backticks work, I think it's fine to use them. I was just wondering if they would work at all.

> ```

Author: No I think it is great you pointed this out, and yes they do work for just text.

But when wanting a code block inside of them, am I a bit unsure, 4 backticks maybe make it work. But I am pretty sure 3 won't. So in any case I will have to do a change to make it consistent across the track.

## Truthy and falsy

> In crystal so are there [truthy and falsy values][truthy_and_falsey_values].

Author: I read a discussion online about falsy and falsey and that it was such a new word so the spelling was decided or something. I think the meaning is the same. But I agree that we should follow the same spelling as the official doc

`true` and `false` are truthy and falsy respectively, Crystal sees `nil`, `false` and pointers which memory address is zero (_for example: `0`, `""`, `[]`_) as falsy everything else will be seen as truthy.

These values can be used with the logical operators, mentioned above.

```crystal

true && 0
# => false

true && 1
# => true

true || nil
# => true
```

## Method naming conventions with booleans

In Crystal is it common to name method that returns a bool with a question mark (`?`).

> It is to show that the method will either return a truthy or falsy value.

Author: I think I improved this, plz let me know if I didn't

> That is done to show that the method can be used with for example an if statement.

Author: Hmmmm, the most common one I use is `includes?`, but I think explaining that method doesn't make sense.

I think I think it maybe make sense to replace that `zero?` method with `nil?`, since that is a real method in crystal.

> That is done to show that the method can be used with for example an if statement.

Author: ```crystal
def exchange(value)
    if value.nil?
        value = 5
    end
    value
end

exchange(10)
# => 10

exchange(nil)
# => 5
```

Do you think something like this make sense?

> That is done to show that the method can be used with for example an if statement.

Reviewer 4: Sounds good!
